ADALM-Pluto
===========

The Analog Devices Active Learning Module Pluto (ADALM-PLUTO, or PlutoSDR) is a low-cost ($230) SDR platform intended for educational or hobbyist use [1].  The PlutoSDR hardware combines an AD9361 RF transceiver module with a Xilinx Zynq 7010 FPGA SoC to receive and demodulate RF signals and transfer the baseband/intermediate frequency samples to a host computer.  The signal can then be processed on the host using software such as MATLAB or GNU Radio [2] to produce a full SDR capability.  The PlutoSDR itself also runs an embedded Linux distribution on the two Arm cores in the Zynq SoC, which also allows software to be cross-compiled and run on-device.  The PlutoSDR is fully open-source, and the hardware schematics, firmware image, and FPGA source files are available on GitHub [3].  However, the PlutoSDR is most commonly used as an RF front end and combined with SDR software running on a host computer, such that the FPGA DSP resources are unused.

A number of other open-source SDR projects have used the PlutoSDR hardware and replaced the firmware image to better utilize the programmable logic (PL) resources in the Zynq SoC.  The Oscillator Instability Measurement Platform (OscillatorIMP) developed a new embedded Linux image for the PlutoSDR to enable running GNU Radio natively on the Zynq processor system (PS) [4].  This image also added an audio output capability in the FPGA to produce a fully self-contained broadcast FM radio receiver running on the PlutoSDR.  A second open-source project called Maia SDR replaces the original firmware image with a custom FPGA image and an HTTP server to transmit a real-time spectrum waterfall to a host computer at 61.44 Msps (the limit of the RF transceiver) [5].  One of the stated goals of Maia SDR is to “foster open-source development of SDR applications on FPGA” [6], which is well-aligned with the goals of this thesis proposal.  However, the existing FPGA image and PS software for Maia SDR currently only supports a spectrum analyzer function, with no real wireless communications capability.  In contrast, Pluto-PYNQ would enable the rapid reconfigurability that is desired in SDR systems without requiring the labor involved with writing the custom DMAs and interfaces required for Maia SDR.